

=== PAGE 1 ===
THE CODE FOR
SELF-REGULATION
OF ADVERTISING
CONTENT IN INDIA

=== PAGE 2 ===
THE ASCI PLEDGE
TO ADVERTISE WITH A CONSCIENCE
To my organisation, business associates,
industry, and to society at large, I pledge:
To ensure Honesty, Truthfulness and Decency
in advertising, Non-exploitation of vulnerable
sections of society, especially children, and
Fairness in Competition.
I commit myself to Advertising with a
conscience.

=== PAGE 3 ===
INDEX
Introduction …………………………………………………………………………………………………… 01
The Code for Self-Regulation in Advertising …………………………………………… 02
Definitions ……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 06
• Chapter I - Truthful & Honest Representation …………………………………… 09
• Chapter II - Non-offensive to Public ……………………………………………………… 12
• Chapter III - Against Harmful Products/Services/Situations …………… 13
• Chapter IV - Fair in Competition …………………………………………………………… 15
Guidelines for Specific Category Ads
• Advertisements Depicting Automotive Vehicles ………………………………… 19
• Qualification of Brand Extension Product or Service ……………………… 20
• Advertising of Foods & Beverages (F&B) …………………………………………… 22
• Advertising of Educational Institutions and Programmes ………………… 24
• Disclaimers made in supporting, limiting or explaining
claims made in Advertisements ……………………………………………………………… 27
• Validity & Duration of Claiming New/Improved ………………………………… 33
• Saving for Large Pack Comparison ……………………………………………………… 34
• Advertising for Skin Lightening or Fairness
Improvement Products …………………………………………………………………………… 35
• Celebrities in Advertising ……………………………………………………………………… 37
• Usage of Awards/Rankings in Advertisements …………………………………… 39
• Influencer Advertising in Digital Media ……………………………………………… 44
• Advertising of Virtual Digital Assets and Linked Services ……………… 50
• Harmful Gender Stereotypes ………………………………………………………………… 54
• Online Deceptive Design Patterns in Advertising ……………………………… 58
• Advertisements for Charitable Causes ………………………………………………… 61
• Guidelines for Advertisements Making Environmental/
Green Claims ……………………………………………………………………………………………… 63

=== PAGE 4 ===
ASCI'S RECOGNITIONS
Important provisions of the Acts of
Government Of India & Recognition of ASCI Code
by Key Stakeholders:
The ASCI Code is appended in the Cable
Television Networks Rules, 1994, Programme and
Advertising Codes, prescribed under the Cable
Television Network Rules, 1994
Rule: 7 - 'No advertisement which violates the
Code for self-regulation in advertising, as
adopted by the Advertising Standard Council of
India (ASCI), Mumbai, for public exhibition in
India, from time to time, shall be carried in the
cable service.'
Codes of Advertising issued by Doordarshan
acknowledge ASCI Codes. (Ref. Page 2, Item No.: 14)
The Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) had
partnered with ASCI to address all complaints pertaining
to misleading advertisements received on Grievances
Against Misleading Advertisements (GAMA) portal.
(Ref.gama.gov.in)
The ASCI Code is appended in the advertising guideline
by All India Radio. (Ref. Item No.: 13)
Disclaimer: Logos belong to the owners.

=== PAGE 5 ===
ASCI'S RECOGNITIONS
Important provisions of the Acts of
Government Of India & Recognition of ASCI Code
by Key Stakeholders:
The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India,
through an MoU, had partnered with ASCI to address
misleading advertisements in the Food & Beverages
sector, April 2016. (Ref. fssai.gov.in)
Ministry of AYUSH, through an MoU, has partnered with
ASCI to co-regulate misleading advertisements in the
AYUSH sector, January 2017. (Ref. ayush.gov.in)
ASCI was a member of the Steering Committee formed
by the Central Government to look into violations of the
Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of
Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce,
Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003
(Ref. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Notification
dated, 9th June 2010, G.S.R. 489 (E))
The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI)
recognised self-regulation in advertising through
ASCl's Code, 2006.
Disclaimer: Logos belong to the owners.

=== PAGE 6 ===
ASCI'S RECOGNITIONS
Important provisions of the Acts of
Government Of India & Recognition of ASCI Code
by Key Stakeholders:
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act
mentions adherence for insurance companies to ASCI
Codes. Ref. Item No.: 12 - Adherence to advertisement
code — Every insurer or intermediary shall follow
recognised standards of professional conduct as
prescribed by the Advertisement Standards Council of
India (ASCI), and discharge its functions in the interest
of the policyholders.
Appended in the Maharashtra Directorate of Technical
Education (DTE) Act
Ref. Item 13 - Every educational institution shall follow
the self—imposed discipline required under the
Advertising Standards Council of India Code for
self-regulation in advertising.
Transport Department, Government of NCT, Delhi has
recognised the ASCl Code.
Ref. Clause 2.3 - All advertisements must comply with
the code of advertising practice issued by the
Advertising Standards Council of India.
ASCI is a part of a committee constituted by
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA (NHAI)
along with NCERT, SCERT to regulate the content of
automobile advertisements.
Disclaimer: Logos belong to the owners.

=== PAGE 7 ===
ASCI'S RECOGNITIONS
Important provisions of the Acts of
Government Of India & Recognition of ASCI Code
by Key Stakeholders:
The Supreme Court of India (SC), in its judgement dated,
12th January 2017, titled "Common Cause (A Regd.
Society) vs. Union of India of India and ORS", affirmed
and recognised the self-regulatory mechanism put in
place for advertising content by ASCI. (Ref. Supreme
Court of India order dated, 12th January 2017)
The Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety decided
that ASCI and the Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturing (SIAM) will work out a mechanism to
telecast only advertisements conforming to road safety.
The Committee also complimented ASCI on the launch
of their WhatsApp number for registration of complaints
by consumers, and requested Director (Road Safety),
Ministry of Road, Transport and Highway to publicise
this number to increase awareness in the public.
ASCI's Code of Self-Regulation in Advertising is
appended in the Press Council of India's Norms of
Journalistic Conduct 2010 Edition. (Ref. Page 60,
Appendix II)
The ASCI Code is appended in Indian Broadcasting
Foundation's Self-Regulatory Guidelines for non-news
and current affairs programme.
Ref. Page 19, Item No. 4 - As per the Cable TV
Networks (Regulation) Act, all complaints related to
advertisements shall be regulated by Advertising
Standards Council of India (ASCI).
Disclaimer: Logos belong to the owners.

=== PAGE 8 ===
KEY REGULATORY STAKEHOLDERS FOR ASCI
Since 1st July, 2021
Disclaimer: Logos belong to the owners.

=== PAGE 9 ===
KEY REGULATORY STAKEHOLDERS FOR ASCI
Since 23rd August, 2019
Disclaimer: Logos belong to the owners.

=== PAGE 10 ===
INTRODUCTION
TO ASCI
The Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI),
established in 1985, is committed to the cause of
self-regulation in advertising, ensuring the protection of the
interests of consumers. ASCI seeks to ensure that
advertisements conform to its Code for Self-Regulation,
which requires advertisements to be legal, decent, honest
and truthful, and not hazardous or harmful, while observing
fairness in competition.
ASCI is a voluntary self-regulation council, registered as a
not-for-profit company under Section 25 of the Indian
Companies Act. The sponsors of ASCI, who are its principal
members, are firms of considerable repute within the
Industry in India, and comprise of advertisers, media,
advertising agencies and other professional / ancillary
services connected with advertising practices. ASCI is not a
government body, nor does it formulate rules for the public
or relevant industries.
01

=== PAGE 11 ===
INTRODUCTION
THE CODE FOR
TO ASCI SELF-REGULATION
IN ADVERTISING
The Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI),
established in 1985, is committed to the cause of
PURPOSE
self-regulation in advertising, ensuring the protection of the
interests of consumers. ASCI seeks to ensure that
The purpose of the Code is to control the content of
advertisements conform to its Code for Self-Regulation,
advertisements, not to hamper the sale of products which
which requires advertisements to be legal, decent, honest
may be found offensive, for whatever reason, by some
and truthful, and not hazardous or harmful, while observing
people. Provided, therefore, that advertisements for such
fairness in competition.
products are not themselves offensive, there will normally
be no ground for objection to them in terms of this Code.
ASCI is a voluntary self-regulation council, registered as a
not-for-profit company under Section 25 of the Indian
Companies Act. The sponsors of ASCI, who are its principal
members, are firms of considerable repute within the
Industry in India, and comprise of advertisers, media,
advertising agencies and other professional / ancillary
services connected with advertising practices. ASCI is not a
government body, nor does it formulate rules for the public
or relevant industries.
02

=== PAGE 12 ===
DECLARATION OF
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
This Code for Self-Regulation has been drawn up by people in professions
and industries in, or connected with, advertising, in consultation with
representatives of people affected by advertising. It has been accepted by
individuals, corporate bodies and associations engaged in, or otherwise
concerned with, the practice of advertising, with the following as basic
guidelines, and with a view to achieve the acceptance of fair advertising
practices in the best interest of the ultimate consumer:
T o ensure the truthfulness and honesty of representations and claims
made by advertisements, and to safeguard against misleading
advertisements.
T o ensure that advertisements are not offensive to generally
accepted standards of public decency.
T o safeguard against the indiscriminate use of advertising for the
promotion of products, which are regarded as hazardous to society
or to individuals to a degree, or of a type which is unacceptable to
society at large.
T o ensure that advertisements observe fairness in competition so
that the consumer’s need to be informed of choices in the
marketplace and the canons of generally accepted competitive
behavior in business is both served.
The Code’s rules form the basis for judgement whenever there may be
conflicting views about the acceptability of an advertisement, whether it
is challenged from within or from outside the advertising business. Both
the general public and an advertiser’s competitors have an equal right to
expect the content of advertisements to be presented fairly, intelligibly and
responsibly. The Code applies to advertisers, advertising agencies and media.
03

=== PAGE 13 ===
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
OBSERVANCE OF THIS CODE
The responsibility for the observance of this Code for Self-Regulation
in Advertising lies with all who commission, create, place or publish any
advertisement, or assist in the creation or publishing of any advertisement. All
advertisers, advertising agencies and media are expected not to commission,
create, place or publish any advertisement which is in contravention of this
Code. This is a self-imposed discipline required under this Code for Self-
Regulation in Advertising from all involved in the commissioning, creation,
placement or publishing of advertisements.
This Code applies to advertisements read, heard or viewed in India even if they
originate, or are published abroad, as long as they are directed to consumers
in India or are exposed to significant number of consumers in India.
THE CODE AND THE LAW
The Code’s rule are not the only ones to affect advertising.
There are many provisions, both in the common law and in the statutes,
which can determine the form or the content of an advertisement.
The Code is not in competition with law. Its rules, and the machinery through
which they are enforced, are designed to complement legal controls, not to
usurp or replace them.
“The Code for self-regulation in advertising has been recognised by the
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India by inserting
Rule 7(9) in the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994 framed under Cable
Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995.”
Rule 7(9) substituted by G.S.R. 459(E), dated 2-8-2006 provides that ‘No
advertisement which violates the Code for self-regulation in advertising, as
adopted by the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), Mumbai for
public exhibition in India, from time to time, shall be carried in the cable
service.’
04

=== PAGE 14 ===
41 4400
SNOITINIFED

=== PAGE 15 ===
DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Code:
• An advertisement is defined as a paid-for communication, addressed
to the public or a section of it, the purpose of which is to promote,
directly or indirectly, the sale or use of goods and services to whom it
is addressed. Any communication which in the normal course may or
may not be recognised as advertisement by the general public, but is
paid for, or owned or authorised by the advertiser or their advertising
agency would be included in the definition.
• A product is anything which forms the subject of an advertisement,
and includes goods, services and facilities.
• A consumer is any person or corporate body who is likely to be reached
by an advertisement, whether as an ultimate consumer, in the way of
trade, or otherwise.
• An advertiser is anybody, including an individual or partnership or
corporate body or association, on whose brief the advertisement is
designed, and on whose account the advertisement is released.
• An advertising agency includes all individuals, partnerships, corporate
bodies or associations, who or which work for planning, research,
creation or placement of advertisements, or the creation of material
for advertisements for advertisers, or for other advertising agencies.
• Media owners are organisations or individuals in effective control of
the management of media, or their agents. Media are any means used
for the propagation of advertisements and include press, cinema,
radio, television, hoardings, hard bills, direct mail, posters, internet,
digital etc.
• Children are defined as persons who are below the age of 12 years
• Any written or graphic matter on packaging, whether unitary or bulk,
or contained in it, is subject to this Code in the same manner as any
advertisement in any other medium.
• To publish is to carry the advertisement in any media, whether by
printing, exhibiting, broadcasting, displaying, distributing, etc.
06

=== PAGE 16 ===
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
Advertising is an important and legitimate means for the seller to awaken
interest in his products. The success of advertising depends on public
confidence. Hence, no practice should be permitted which tends to impair
this confidence. The standards laid down here should be taken as minimum
standards of acceptability which would be liable to be reviewed from time to
time in relation to the prevailing norm of consumers’ susceptibilities.
07

=== PAGE 17 ===
41 4400
EDOC
EHT

=== PAGE 18 ===
CHAPTER - I
TRUTHFUL & HONEST
REPRESENTATION
To ensure truthfulness and honesty of representations and claims made by
advertisements, and to safeguard against misleading advertisements
1.1. A dvertisements must be truthful. All descriptions, claims and
comparisons, which relate to matters of objectively ascertainable
fact, should be capable of substantiation. Advertisers and advertising
agencies are required to produce such substantiation as and when
called upon to do so by The Advertising Standards Council of India.
1.2. W here advertising claims are expressly stated to be based on, or
supported by independent research or assessment, its source and
date should be indicated in the advertisement.
1.3. A dvertisements shall not, without permission from the person,
firm or institution under reference, contain any reference to such
person, firm or institution, which confers an unjustified advantage
on the product advertised or tends to bring the person, firm or
institution into ridicule or disrepute. If and when required to do
so by The Advertising Standards Council of India, the advertiser
and the advertising agency shall produce explicit permission from
the person, firm or institution to which reference is made in the
advertisement.
1.4. A dvertisements shall neither distort facts nor mislead the consumer
by means of implications or omissions. Advertisements shall not
contain statements or visual presentation, which directly, or by
implication or by omission or by ambiguity or by exaggeration, are
likely to mislead the consumer about the product advertised or the
advertiser, or about any other product or advertiser.
1.5. A dvertisements shall not be so framed as to abuse the trust of
consumers, or exploit their lack of experience or knowledge.
No advertisement shall be permitted to contain any claim so
exaggerated as to lead to grave or widespread disappointment in
the minds of consumers.
09

=== PAGE 19 ===
10
I
-
retpahC
For example:
(a) P roducts shall not be described as `free’ where there is any direct cost
to the consumer other than the actual cost of any delivery, freight,
or postage. Where such costs are payable by the consumer, a clear
statement that this is the case shall be made in the advertisement.
(b) W here a claim is made that if one product is purchased, another
product will be provided `free’, the advertiser is required to show,
as and when called upon by The Advertising Standards Council of
India, that the price paid by the consumer for the product which is
offered for purchase with the advertised incentive is no more than
the prevailing price of the product without the advertised incentive.
(c) C laims which use expressions such as “up to five years guarantee”
or “Prices from as low as Rs. Y” are not acceptable if there is a
likelihood of the consumer being misled, either as to the extent of
the availability, or as to the applicability of the benefits offered.
(d) S pecial care and restraint has to be exercised in advertisements
addressed to those suffering from weakness, any real or perceived
inadequacy of any physical attributes such as height or bust
development, obesity, illness, impotence, infertility, baldness and
the like, to ensure that claims or representations, directly or by
implication, do not exceed what is considered prudent by generally
accepted standards of medical practice and the actual efficacy of
the product.
(e) A dvertisements inviting the public to invest money shall not contain
statements which may mislead the consumer in respect of the
security offered, rates of return or terms of amortisation; where any
of the foregoing elements are contingent upon the continuance
of, or change in existing conditions, or any other assumptions,
such conditions or assumptions must be clearly indicated in the
advertisement.
(f) A dvertisements inviting the public to take part in lotteries or prize
competitions permitted under law, or which hold out the prospect
of gifts, shall state clearly all material conditions as to enable
the consumer to obtain a true and fair view of their prospects in
such activities. Further, such advertisers shall make adequate
provisions for the judging of such competitions, announcement
of the results and the fair distribution of prizes or gifts according

=== PAGE 20 ===
to the advertised terms and conditions within a reasonable period
of time. With regard to the announcement of results, it is clarified
that the advertiser’s responsibility under this section of the Code
is discharged adequately if the advertiser and results in the media
used to announce the competition, as far as is practicable and
advises the individual winners by post.
1.6. O bvious untruths or exaggerations intended to amuse or to catch the
eye of the consumer are permissible, provided that they are clearly to
be seen as humorous or hyperbolic, and not likely to be understood
as making literal or misleading claims for the advertised product.
1.7. I n mass manufacturing and distribution of goods and services it is
possible that there may be an occasional and unintentional lapse in
the fulfilment of an advertised promise or claim. Such occasional
and unintentional lapses may not invalidate the advertisement in
terms of this Code. In judging such issues, due regard shall be given
to the following:
(a) Whether the claim or promise is capable of fulfilment by a
typical specimen of the product advertised.
(b) Whether the proportion of product failures is within generally
acceptable limits.
(c) Whether the advertiser has taken prompt action to make good
the deficiency to the consumer.
1.8. S ocial media advertisements or promotions posted on the handles
of media companies must be clearly identifiable and distinguishable
from editorial or any other content. All such advertisements should
add adequate disclosures upfront and prominently at the beginning
of the post, such that audiences know they are interacting with an
advertisement/promoted content.
T he following is the list of disclosure labels permitted. Any one or
more can be used:
• Advertisement • Partnership
• Ad • Free Gift
• Sponsored • Platform disclosure tags
• Collaboration
Chairman,
Board of Governors, ASCI
July 10th, 2025
11

=== PAGE 21 ===
12
II
-
retpahC
CHAPTER - II
NON-OFFENSIVE
TO PUBLIC
To ensure that advertisements are not offensive to generally accepted
standards of public decency.
Advertisements should contain nothing indecent, vulgar, especially in the
depiction of women, or nothing repulsive which is likely, in the light of
generally prevailing standards of decency and propriety, to cause grave and
widespread offence.

=== PAGE 22 ===
CHAPTER - III
AGAINST HARMFUL PRODUCTS /
SERVICES / SITUATIONS
To safeguard against the indiscriminate use of advertising in situations or
of the promotion of products or services which are regarded as hazardous
or harmful to society or to individuals, particularly children, to a degree, or
of a type which is unacceptable to society at large.
3.1. No advertisement shall be permitted which:
(a) Tends to incite people to crime or to promote disorder and
violence or intolerance.
(b) Derides any individual or groups on the basis of race, caste,
colour, religion, gender, body shape, age, sexual orientation,
gender identity, physical or mental conditions, or nationality.
(c) Presents criminality as desirable, or directly or indirectly
encourages people - particularly children - to emulate it, or
conveys the modus operandi of any crime.
(d) Adversely affects friendly relations with a foreign State.
3.2. A dvertisements addressed to children shall not contain anything,
whether in illustration or otherwise, which might result in their
physical, mental or moral harm, or which exploits their vulnerability.
For example, advertisements:
(a) Should not encourage children to enter strange places or
converse with strangers in an effort to collect coupons,
wrappers, labels, or the like.
(b) Should not feature dangerous or hazardous acts which are
likely to encourage children to emulate such acts in a manner
which could cause harm or injury.
(c) Should not show children using or playing with matches or any
inflammable or explosive substance; or playing with, or using
sharp knives, guns or mechanical or electrical appliances, the
careless use of which could lead to their suffering cuts, burns,
shocks or other injury.
13

=== PAGE 23 ===
14
III
-
retpahC
(d) Should not feature children for tobacco or alcohol-based products.
(e) Should not feature personalities from the field of sports
and entertainment for products which, by law, require a
health warning such as “………….. is injurious to health” in their
advertising or packaging.
3.3. A dvertisements shall not, without justifiable reason, show or refer to
dangerous practices, or manifest a disregard for safety, or encourage
negligence.
3.4. A dvertisements should contain nothing which is in breach of the
law, nor omit anything which the law requires.
3.5. A dvertisements shall not propagate products or services, the use of
which is banned under the law.
3.6. A dvertisements for products or services whose advertising is
prohibited or restricted by law or by this Code must not circumvent
such restrictions by purporting to be advertisements for other
products or services, the advertising of which is not prohibited or
restricted by law, or by this Code. In judging whether or not any
particular advertisement is an indirect advertisement for a products
or service whose advertising is restricted or prohibited, due attention
shall be paid to the following:
(a) Whether the unrestricted product, which is purportedly
sought to be promoted through the advertisement under the
complaint, is produced and distributed in reasonable quantities,
having regard to the scale of the advertising in question, the
media used and the markets targeted.
(b) Whether there exist in the advertisement under complaint,
any direct or indirect clues or cues which could suggest to
consumers that it is a direct or indirect advertisement for
the products or service whose advertising is restricted or
prohibited by law or by this Code.
(c) Where advertising is necessary, the mere use of a brand name
or company name that may also be applied to a products or
service whose advertising is restricted or prohibited, is not
a reason to find the advertisement objectionable, provided
the advertisement is not objectionable in terms of (a) and
(b) above.
Last updated: April 29, 2024

=== PAGE 24 ===
CHAPTER - IV
FAIR IN COMPETITION
To ensure that advertisements observe fairness in competition such that the
consumer’s need to be informed on choice in the marketplace and the canons
of generally accepted competitive behavior in business are both served.
4.1. A dvertisements containing comparisons with other manufacturers
or suppliers, or with other products, including those where a
competitor is named, are permissible in the interests of vigorous
competition and public enlightenment, provided:
(a) It is clear what aspects of the advertiser’s product are being
compared with what aspects of the competitor’s product.
(b) The subject matter of comparison is not chosen in such a way
as to confer an artificial advantage upon the advertiser or so
as to suggest that a better bargain is offered than is truly the
case.
(c) The comparisons are factual, accurate and capable of
substantiation.
(d) There is no likelihood of the consumer being misled as a result
of the comparison, whether about the product advertised or
that with which it is compared.
(e) The advertisement does not unfairly denigrate, attack or
discredit other products, advertisers or advertisements directly
or by implication.
4.2. A dvertisements shall not make unjustifiable use of the name or
initials of any other firm, company or institution, nor take unfair
advantage of the goodwill attached to the trademark or symbol of
another firm, its product or the goodwill acquired by its advertising
campaign.
4.3. A dvertisements shall not be similar to any other advertiser’s
earlier run advertisements in general layout, copy, slogans, visual
presentations, music or sound effects, so as to suggest plagiarism.
15

=== PAGE 25 ===
16
VI
-
retpahC
4.4. A s regards matters covered by sections 2 and 3 above, complaints
of plagiarism of advertisements released earlier abroad will lie
outside the scope of this Code, except in the under-mentioned
circumstances:
(a) The complaint is lodged within 12 months of the first general
circulation of the advertisements/campaign complained
against.
(b) The complainant provides substantiation regarding the claim
of prior invention/usage abroad.
Chairman,
Board of Governors, ASCI
April 21st, 2022

=== PAGE 26 ===
41 4400
SENILEDIUG

=== PAGE 27 ===
41 4400
SENILEDIUG

=== PAGE 28 ===
SELF-REGULATION GUIDELINES
FOR ADVERTISEMENTS DEPICTING
AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLES
Preamble
Advertisements have a significant influence on people’s behaviour. As such,
advertisers are encouraged to depict advertisements in a manner which
promotes safe practices, e.g., wearing of helmets and fastening of seat
belts, not using mobiles/cell phones when driving, etc.
Guidelines
Specifically, advertisements should not:
a) Portray violation of traffic rules.
b) Show speed maneuverability in a manner which encourages unsafe
or reckless driving, which could harm the driver, passengers and/or
the general public.
c) Show stunts or actions, which require professional driving skills, in
normal traffic conditions, which in any case should carry a readable
cautionary message drawing viewer attention to the depiction of
stunts.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
April 1st 2008
19

=== PAGE 29 ===
senilediuG
GUIDELINES FOR QUALIFICATION OF
BRAND EXTENSION-PRODUCT OR
SERVICE
In order to evaluate the genuineness of an unrestricted product, or service
brand extension of a product (e.g., liquor and tobacco) whose advertising
is prohibited by law, The Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) has
decided the following objective criteria to be used to qualify a correct brand
extension product or service (see Chapter Ill Clause 3.6 (a) of ASCI code):
1. Brand extension product or service should be registered with
appropriate Government authority e.g., GST/FDA/FSSAI/TM etc.
A) For a brand that is present in the market for >2 years, the
following criteria would apply
I. Sales turnover of the product or service should exceed Rs. 5 crore
per annum nationally, or Rs. 1 crore per annum per state, where
distribution has been established.
II. A valid certificate from an independent organisation such as
NielsenIQ or category - specific industry association, or an
independent and reputed CA firm would be required to prove
the concerned criteria.
B) Brand extensions which have been launched in the market,
but have not yet completed two years must meet any one of
the following criteria:
I. Achieve a net sales turnover of Rs. 20 lakhs per month from
launch. Such sales should not be to a subsidiary or sister concern.
II. Demonstrate fixed asset investments which are exclusive to
the advertised brand extension of not less than Rs. 10 crore.
Such assets could be land, machines, factory, software, etc.,
in case the product is being manufactured/ developed by the
advertiser. No advertising related expense should be part of
such investments.
20

=== PAGE 30 ===
III. In case the manufacturing/procurement of such brand
extensions is being outsourced, then evidence may include
board resolutions and purchase orders for long term (> 1 year)
contracts with service providers/manufacturing entities, stating
their capacities, and contracted volumes/Rupee value, which
clearly demonstrate the possibility of achieving the turnover as
laid out in criteria 2B (I).
IV. Give evidence of turnover greater than 10% of the turnover
of the same brand in the restricted category (including sub
brands in the restricted category).
2. The scale of advertising for such an extension should be proportionate
to the sales of that extension. Hence the advertising budget for such
a brand extension should not exceed 200% of sales turnover in year
1&2 of launch, 100% in year 3, 50% in year 4 and 30% thereafter. For
this purpose, the advertising budget would include:
a. Media spends across all media for the prior 12 months.
b. Payments contracted to celebrities appearing in the ad and for
brand endorsement, on annualised basis.
c. Annual average of money spent on advertising production for
the brand in the previous 3 years.
All the above evidence should be certified by a reputed and independent
CA firm.
Irrespective of the length of time the brand has been in the market, date of
launch would be considered as the date of the first invoice for sale for the
said brand extension.
For the purpose of this guideline, any variants launched under the said
brand extension will not be treated as a fresh extension and the original
date of the first brand extension would apply.
If a brand extension cannot meet the qualification criteria, for the purpose
of the ASCI code it would not be considered a genuine brand extension, but
rather a surrogate created to advertise a restricted category.
Chairman,
Board of Governors, ASCI
November 23rd, 2023
21

=== PAGE 31 ===
senilediuG
SELF-REGULATION GUIDELINES ON
ADVERTISING OF FOODS & BEVERAGES
(F&B)
Preamble
Communication and advertisements related to F&B can have significant
impact on the lives of the public in general, and their physical and material
well-being in particular. It is therefore imperative that F&B advertisements
fulfil their intended roles, and advertisers adopt strict principles of
self-regulation, and not mislead the general public in any manner detrimental
to well-being. Caution and care should be observed in advertising of F&B,
especially ones containing relatively High Fat, Sugar and Salt (HFSS).
Recognising the need to promote high standards of business ethics, to
ensure commercial communications to consumers are responsible and the
need to provide honest and truthful information about food and beverage
products are met, the following guidelines are issued.
Guidelines
1) Advertisements should not be misleading or deceptive. Specifically,
advertisements should not mislead consumers to believe that
consumption of product advertised will result directly in personal
changes in intelligence, physical ability or exceptional recognition.
Such claims, if made in advertisements, should be supported and
substantiated with evidence and with adequate scientific basis.
2) Advertisements that include what consumer, acting reasonably,
might interpret as health or nutritional claims, shall be supported
by appropriate scientific evidence and meeting the requirement of
basic food standards laid down under the Food Safety Standards
Act and Rules, wherever applicable.
3) Advertisements should not disparage good dietary practice or
the selection of options, such as fresh fruits and vegetables that
accepted dietary opinion recommends should form part of the
normal diet.
22

=== PAGE 32 ===
4) Advertisements should not encourage over or excessive consumption
or show inappropriately large portions of any food or beverage. It
should reflect moderation in consumption and show portion sizes
appropriate to the occasion or situation.
5) Advertisements should also not undermine the importance of
healthy lifestyles or mislead as to the nutritive value of the food or
beverage.
6) Advertisement should not undermine the role of parental care and
guidance in ensuring proper food choices are made by children.
7) Advertisements for food or beverages, unless nutritionally designed
as such, should not be promoted or portrayed as a meal replacement.
8) Claims in advertisements should not be inconsistent with information
on the label or packaging of the food or beverage.
9) Advertisement for food and beverages should not claim or imply
endorsement by any government agency, professional body, and
independent agency or individual in a particular profession in India,
unless there is prior consent, the claim is current, the endorsement
is verifiable, and the agency body is named.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
February 1st 2013
23

=== PAGE 33 ===
senilediuG
ASCI GUIDELINES FOR ADVERTISING
OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS,
PROGRAMMES AND PLATFORMS
Preamble
Educational institutions such as universities, colleges, schools, coaching
classes, Edtech platforms etc., which offer education and training
programmes, play a vital role in building the intellectual capital of India.
Parents place a very high value on the education of their children and are
known to make great personal sacrifices to enable their children get the right
education. Unlike a tangible product, where it is frequently possible to judge
the value of what is being offered by inspection and demonstration, in the
field of education and training, the value of a programme is judged mainly
by means such as degrees, diplomas and other qualification nomenclatures,
recognition, affiliations, testimonials, accreditations, admissions/job/
compensation promises – of which, the variety being advertised are many.
The advertising of these products and services can have an impact on the
minds of growing children and vulnerable parents. Therefore, in addition to
being truthful and honest, and complying with Chapter I of the ASCI code
that requires ads to be honest, ads must also consider any harm that can be
caused through the depictions or messages. Chapter III of the ASCI Code
requires advertisements addressed to children to not contain anything,
whether in illustration or otherwise, which might result in their physical,
mental or moral harm, or which exploits their vulnerability.
Guidelines
Further to complying with the general rules of ASCI’s Code for Self-Regulation
in advertising, the advertisements of educational institutions, programmes
and platforms shall comply with the following guidelines:
1. The advertisement shall not state or lead the public to believe that an
institution or course or programme is official, recognised, authorised,
accredited, approved, registered, affiliated, endorsed or has a legally
defined situation unless the advertiser is able to substantiate with
evidence.
24

=== PAGE 34 ===
2.(a) An advertisement offering a degree, diploma or certificate, which
by law requires to be recognised or approved by an authority shall
have the name of that authority specified for that particular field.
2.(b) In case the advertised institution or programme is not recognised or
approved by any mandatory authority, but is affiliated with another
institution, which is approved or recognised by a mandatory
authority, then the full name and location of the said affiliating
institution shall also be stated in the advertisement.
2.(c) The name of the affiliating institution, as indicated in 2.(b), shall not
be less than 50% of the font size as that of the advertised institution
or programme in visual media such as print, internet, hoarding,
leaflet, prospectus etc., including television. In audio media such
as radio or TV, the name of the affiliating institution (if applicable),
must be stated.
3. Advertisement shall not state or lead the public to believe that
enrolment in the institution, programme or preparation course or
coaching classes will guarantee the student a rank, high marks,
temporary or permanent job, admissions to institutions, job
promotions, salary increase, etc. unless the advertiser is able to
submit substantiation to such effect. In addition, the advertisement
must carry a disclaimer stating ‘past record is no guarantee of future
prospects.’ The font size of the disclaimer should not be less than
the size of the claim being made in the advertisements.
4. Advertisements shall not make claims with a numerical value of
100% with respect to claims that are abstract and non-quantifiable
in nature. For eg: 100% Placement/Job assistance, 100% Job
opportunities/Job oriented courses.
5.(a) Advertisements shall not make claims regarding the extent of the
passing batch placed, the highest or average compensation of the
students placed, enrolment of students, admissions of students to
renowned educational institutes, marks and ranking of students passed
out, testimonial of topper students, institution’s or its programme’s
competitive ranking, size and qualification of its faculty, affiliation with
a foreign institution, institute’s infrastructure, etc. unless they are of the
latest completed academic year and substantiated with evidence.
25

=== PAGE 35 ===
senilediuG
5.(b) Advertisement stating the competitive rank of the institution or
its programme shall also provide the full name and date of the
publication or medium, which released the rankings.
5.(c) Visuals of the infrastructure of any institution shown in an
advertisement shall be real and existing at the time of the
advertisement’s release.
5.(d) Testimonials of toppers in an advertisement shall be from students
who have completed the testimony programme, exams or subject
only from the advertising institute.
5.(e) An advertisement stating the number of passing out students
placed for jobs shall also state the total number of students passing
out from the placed class.
6. An advertisement may not show school students compromising on
sleep or meals to study as this normalises unhealthy habits which
are detrimental to student health.
7. While an advertisement may show disappointment with low scores,
it must not portray an average or poor scorer as an unsuccessful
student or a failure, or show him/ her/ them as demotivated,
depressed or unhappy, or receiving less love or appreciation from
parents, teachers or peers.
8. An advertisement must not create a false sense of urgency or fear
of missing out that could accentuate anxieties amongst school
students, or their parents.
9. While an advertisement may feature students of any gender,
the advertisement must not suggest that certain subjects are
associated with particular genders alone. Advertisements must also
not suggest that students with high scores are always associated
with stereotypical characteristics such as wearing thick glasses. This
does not prevent advertisements from depicting such students so
long as they do not suggest that only these students are successful.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
March 9th 2023
26

=== PAGE 36 ===
ASCI GUIDELINES FOR DISCLAIMERS
MADE IN SUPPORTING, LIMITING
OR EXPLAINING CLAIMS MADE IN
ADVERTISEMENTS
Chapter I (4) of the ASCI code states that “Advertisements shall neither distort
facts nor mislead the consumer by means of implications or omissions.”
Therefore it is important that certain claims be appropriately explained to
ensure that consumers with average intelligence are not misled, nor deceived
by means of implications or omissions. These guidelines are meant to help
Advertisers, Agencies and the Media to better understand the rules in the
ASCI Code for Self-Regulation in Advertising in so far as they relate to
disclaimers used in Advertising.
Guidelines:
1) A Disclaimer can expand or clarify a claim, make qualifications, or
resolve ambiguities, to explain the claim in further detail, but should
not contradict/modify the material claim made nor contradict the
main message conveyed by the advertiser or change the dictionary
meaning of the words used in the claim as received or perceived
by a consumer.
For Example
• If the claim is to offer a product or service for “free”, then the
disclaimer should not contradict the claim by seeking some
form of payment for the product or service.
• If the claim is for giving “cash back”, the disclaimer should
not contradict the claim by giving the payback only in kind.
However, the disclaimer can explain that “cash back” can be
construed to mean virtual wallet or credit to be used as a form
of online payment.
• If the claim in the advertisement is for a discount on all products,
then the disclaimer should not limit the offer to only a few
select products.
2) A disclaimer should not attempt to suppress material information
with respect to the claim, the omission / absence of which is likely to
make the advertisement deceptive or conceal its commercial intent.
27

=== PAGE 37 ===
senilediuG
For Example
• A claim of “best food processing equipment in India” should not
be disclaimed by stating “for vegetable processing only” or “in
major metros only”
• Disclaimer such as “T&C apply” should indicate where this
information is available to consumers for further reference.
3) A disclaimer should not attempt to correct a misleading claim made
in an Advertisement.
For Example
• A claim of internet speeds of “up to 10 mbps” should not be
limited to “between 12 am to 6 am only”.
• Disclaimer for a claim of “lose up to 2 kgs of weight” should not
be “when calorie consumption is limited to xx per day”.
4) Legibility of Disclaimers
a) The aim is to achieve a level of legibility that will enable an
interested viewer, who makes some positive effort, to read all the
information contained in the disclaimers. The general principles
in this section are recommendary in nature to aid Advertisers
and the Agencies to better understand the rules provided in the
more specific, technical guidance in the sections that follow in
order to achieve this aim.
b) TV/ Video advertising is inherently limited by time and space.
Viewers can only reasonably be expected to absorb information,
if it is conveyed clearly. The use of disclaimer should, therefore,
be kept to a minimum. Long or otherwise complex disclaimers
with large blocks of text and difficult words are a deterrent to
viewers attempting to read the contents of the disclaimer. This
defeats the purpose of providing clarity regarding a material
claim made in the advertisement and the ASCI may conclude
that the advertisement, taken as a whole, does not comply with
the Code.
c) In such cases, alternative improvements should be considered
by the advertisers, for example:
i) Modification of the headline claim to reduce the need for
further qualification through disclaimers.
ii) Removal or modification of words or phrases that are not
simple and direct.
iii) Breaking messages down into shorter, more viewer-friendly
phrases or sentences.
28

=== PAGE 38 ===
iv) Removal of words, phrases or sentences from the disclaimer
that serve no essential purpose but might detract from
more important information in the disclaimer or ad creative
more generally.
v) Advertisers should take all steps to ensure that the
disclaimer/s is/are kept to a minimum and are as straight-
forward and simple to comprehend.
Applicability:
The ASCI Guidelines for Disclaimers made in supporting, limiting or
explaining claims apply to only disclaimers linked to product claims.
Additional information provided in the advertisement which falls within
following classification will not be treated as a disclaimer if:
a) Information not related to product claim i.e. if the information is
delinked from the product claim or from a disclaimer related to
the product claim (for instance, additional information provided
in a different line); or
b) Information provided in connection with a legal or regulatory or
ASCI code requirement; or
c) Information provided solely for consumer education / awareness
For eg: Claim is ““Product with ‘X’ removes malodor and kills germs for
overall protection”.
*Line 1- Tested under lab conditions on representative organisms.
Line 2- Please dispose of plastic packaging material responsibly
and segregate plastic wastes from other biodegradable or compostable
waste.
In the above illustration, Line 2 is additional information provided by a
responsible manufacturer for consumer awareness.
Requirements for the disclaimers also cover the following:
I. A disclaimer shall be in the same language as that of the claim/s of
the Advertisement. In case of bilingual advertisements, the disclaimer
should be in the dominant language of the advertisement.
II. The font type should be the same as the claim or sans serif for better
readability, and NOT in italics.
29

=== PAGE 39 ===
senilediuG
III. The placement position of disclaimers of a claim on packaging should
be in a prominent and visible space and should ideally be on the same
panel of the packaging as the claim.
IV. The direction of disclaimers should be along the direction of the
majority of the copy, such that no rotation of head or medium would
be needed to read it. Preferably, this should be along the natural
reading direction of the medium. Exceptions could be for small packs
with limited space (e.g., packaging less than 25 ml/gms).
V. For comparative claims, the basis of comparison must be stated in a
font size that is at least 25% of the font size of the claim which is being
made and positioned in close proximity of the claim i.e. immediately
next to or immediately below the claim.
VI. If the claim is presented as a voice over (VO), then the disclaimer
should be displayed in sync with the VO.
VII. A disclaimer should be clear, distinct from the background, prominent
enough and legible. Disclaimer should be clearly readable to a
normally-sighted person reading the marketing communication once,
from a reasonable distance and at a reasonable speed.
i. Text height of the disclaimer in television commercials or videos
shall conform to the following:
1. For standard definition images, the height of the text lower
case elements shall be NOT LESS THAN 14 pixels [14 lines] in
a 576 line raster.
2. For high-definition images, the height of the text lower case
elements shall be NOT LESS THAN 26 pixels [26 lines] in a
1080 line raster.
3. For 4K/UHD images/video, the height of the text shall be
NOT LESS THAN 57 pixels [57 lines] in a 2160 line raster.
ii. In print advertising, the font size of disclaimers shall be NOT LESS
THAN 7 points for advertisements of 50 cc or less, NOT LESS
THAN 9 points for advertisements of 100 cc or less and NOT
LESS THAN 10 points for advertisements of more than 100 CC.
iii. In static medium like hoardings or point-of-sale advertising,
disclaimers should have font sizes equivalent to 2.6% of the
height of the medium and NOT LESS than 10 points font size.
For large hoarding of 400 sq. feet or more, the font size should
be NOT LESS than 100 points.
30

=== PAGE 40 ===
VIII. Visual presentation in terms of contrast and color, an advertiser shall
ensure that all disclaimers:
i. Be in a colour that contrasts with the background, such that it
allows the text to be clearly legible.
ii. Not be designed in a way such that the text keeps fading in and
out of vision. In such cases, it will normally be necessary to place
the text on an opaque single-coloured block.
IX. Comprehension - Disclaimers in advertisements should use simple
words that are easy to understand and avoid the use of unfamiliar
abbreviations or long and complex words that may not be readily
understood by a consumer.
X. Hold duration and readability of disclaimer -
A. In television commercials or any other video advertisement
on digital media, all disclaimers should be clearly readable to
consumers. In a single frame in an advertisement:
i. There should not be more than one disclaimer. Provided, for
an advertisement carrying combination claims, interlinked
claims or more than 1 claim in a single frame, the disclaimers
related to the said claims shall be published in the same
frame as the claim.
ii. The disclaimer should be restricted to two full length lines
(unless as mentioned in Clause 4(c)(vi)) and remain on
screen for AT LEAST 4 seconds for every line
B. Disclaimers that take up more than two full length lines are likely
to necessitate higher requirements for both size of text and the
duration of hold. Viewers must be given an appropriate length
of time to read the same. This part of the guidance outlines a
method for establishing the duration of hold in the context of a
particular advertisement.
I n general, disclaimers should be held for a duration calculated
at the rate of 5 words per second. An additional ‘recognition
period’ should be added to the duration of hold calculated.
i. Where the disclaimers concerned contain:
(a) 9 words or fewer, the recognition period is 2 seconds; and
(b) 10 words or more, the recognition period is 3 seconds.
ii. For the purposes of calculating the duration of hold of a
disclaimer, all forms of text appearing on screen at any
one point in time should be counted. This includes both
disclaimer text and any text content in the main ad creative
31

=== PAGE 41 ===
senilediuG
regardless of where on screen it appears and whether or not
it is repeated in audio.
An advertiser may either follow the technical specifications of
the hold durations or publish the disclaimer for the required
duration spanning the entire length of the advertisement.
iii. However, the following information when appearing in an
advertisement, will be excluded from being included within
the requirement specified under this clause:
• a company name, brand name or logo;
• text that is included for reasons of a purely technical
legal nature unrelated to consumer protection or the
offer (in practice this will almost always apply only to film
and video trailer credits and to copyright disclaimers or
the like);
• text that is purely incidental to the advertisement and
of such a kind that viewers will be unlikely to believe
contains information (e.g., text on packaging where this
is not being used to convey any part of the claim or
offer); and
• abstract signs such as ‘Rs’ or ‘%’ or decimal point, in
numbers or prices.
iv. Furthermore, the following miscellaneous expressions should
usually be counted as one word:
• e-mail addresses;
• internet URLs; and
• common abbreviations.
The factors influencing readability of disclaimers can work in combination
to frustrate viewers’ attempts to read and understand them. Advertisers are
cautioned that the ASCI will consider the factors individually and cumulatively
when investigating complaints.
XI. Speed for audio disclaimer - In advertisements in Radio / TV / Internet
etc., the speed of spoken disclaimers should not exceed 6 syllables
per second and its volume should be at the same volume level as the
rest of the audio.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
July 13th 2023
32

=== PAGE 42 ===
VALIDITY & DURATION OF CLAIMING
NEW/IMPROVED
DEFINITION PERIOD OVER WHICH
CAN BE CLAIMED
New The words “new” or “improved” The word “new”, “improved” or
must specify what aspect of an ‘improvement’ of a product
the product/service is new or may be used in advertisements
improved- viz the product’s only for a period of one (1)
utility, function, product design, year from the time the new or
package design, etc. improved product/service has
been launched/introduced in
the market.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
June 1st 2014
33

=== PAGE 43 ===
senilediuG
GUIDELINE FOR SAVING FOR LARGE
PACK COMPARISON
Marketers may claim saving for a larger pack, provided the comparison is
made without any ambiguity by highlighting number of smaller pack units
versus the larger promotional pack (viz., “Save INR XX for a 2 KG pack as
compared to four 500 gm packs”). Words to be used “save” and not “off”.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
June 10th 2014
34

=== PAGE 44 ===
GUIDELINES FOR ADVERTISING OF
SKIN LIGHTENING OR FAIRNESS
IMPROVEMENT PRODUCTS
Preamble
While all fairness products are licensed for manufacture and sale by relevant
state Food & Drug Administrations (FDA) under the Drugs & Cosmetics Act,
there is a strong concern in certain sections of society that advertising of
fairness products tends to communicate and perpetuate the notion that
dark skin is inferior and undesirable. ASCI code’s Chapter III 1(b) already
states that advertisements should not deride race, caste, colour, creed or
nationality. Yet, given how widespread the advertising for fairness and skin
lightening products is, and the concerns of different stakeholders in society,
ASCI, therefore, felt a need to frame specific guidelines for this product
category.
Guidelines:
The following guidelines are to be used when creating and assessing
advertisements in this category.
1) Advertising should not communicate any discrimination as a result
of skin colour. These advertisements should not reinforce negative
social stereotyping on the basis of skin colour. Specifically, advertising
should not directly or implicitly show people with darker skin, in a
way which is widely seen as, unattractive, unhappy, depressed or
concerned. These advertisement should not portray people with
darker skin, in a way which is widely seen as, at a disadvantage of
any kind, or inferior, or unsuccessful in any aspect of life, particularly
in relation to being attractive to the opposite sex, matrimony, job
placement, promotions and other prospects.
2) In the pre-usage depiction of product, special care should be taken
to ensure that the expression of the models in the real and graphical
representation should not be negative in a way which is widely seen
as unattractive, unhappy, depressed or concerned.
35

=== PAGE 45 ===
senilediuG
3) Advertising should not associate darker or lighter colour skin with
any particular socio-economic strata, caste, community, religion,
profession or ethnicity.
4) Advertising should not perpetuate gender-based discrimination
because of skin colour.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
August 14th 2014
36

=== PAGE 46 ===
GUIDELINES FOR CELEBRITIES IN
ADVERTISING
Preamble
Celebrities have a strong following and hence high credibility among consumers.
Therefore, advertisements featuring celebrities need to doubly ensure that
claims made in it are not misleading, false or unsubstantiated; so as not to harm
the interests of the consumers, especially for products or services which can
cause serious financial loss and physical harm. These guidelines are developed so
that the advertiser is guided to produce and release appropriate advertisements
featuring celebrities in it. Advertisements featuring celebrities or involving
celebrity endorsements would be subject to the following guidelines:
Guidelines:
a) Celebrities, for the purpose of these guidelines are famous and well-
known people, who are from the field of entertainment and sports,
and would also include other famous and well-known personalities
like doctors, authors, activists, educationists, etc. who
• Get compensated Rs. 40 lakhs or equivalent value annually for
appearing in advertisements or campaigns on any medium and
any format OR
• Has a social media followership of 500,000 or more on any
single social media handle
b) All advertisements featuring celebrities should ensure that it does
not violate any of the ASCI code in letter and spirit. Celebrities are
expected to have adequate knowledge of these Codes and it is the
duty of the advertiser and the agency to make sure that the celebrity
they wish to engage with, is made aware of them.
c) Testimonials, endorsements or representations of opinions or
preference of celebrities must re ect genuine, reasonably current
opinion of the individual(s) making such representations, and must
be based upon adequate information about, or experience with, the
product or service being advertised.
d) Celebrity should do due diligence to ensure that all description,
claims and comparisons made in the advertisements they appear in,
or endorse, are capable of being objectively ascertained and capable
of substantiation, and should not mislead or appear deceptive.
37

=== PAGE 47 ===
senilediuG
The celebrity or his/her agent/manager must give a duly signed written
confirmation to ASCI that the celebrity has undertaken due diligence
for the claims and representations made claims/endorsements made
in a given advertisement in which the celebrity appears.
e) Celebrities should not participate in any advertisement of a product
or treatment or remedy that is prohibited for advertising under
i) The Drugs & Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements)
Act 1954 as updated from time to time (Link for preliminary
guidance https://cghealth.nic.in/CFDA/Doc/Acts&Rules/
Drugs%20and%20Magic%20Remedies%20(Objectionable%20
Advertisement)%20Act,%201954.pdf or
ii) The Drugs & Cosmetic Act 1940 and Rules 1945: (Schedule J) as
updated from time to time (Link for preliminary guidance https://
cdsco.gov.in/opencms/export/sites/CDSCO_WEB/Pdf-documents/
acts_rules/2016DrugsandCosmeticsAct1940Rules1945.Pdf
f) Celebrities should not participate in any advertisements for products
which, by law, require a health warning such as “.............. is injurious
to health” in their advertising or packaging.
g) The celebrity can either directly, or through their concerned agency,
choose to seek Endorser Due Diligence (EDD) from ASCI on whether the
advertisement potentially violates any provisions of the ASCI code and
any other legal statutes pertaining to advertising. If the advertisement
is developed fully following the EDD provided by the ASCI, then the
celebrity would be considered as having completed due diligence.
You may contact ASCI at advisory@ascionline.in for seeking details
regarding EDD procedure or refer www.ascionline.in.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
July 13th 2023
38

=== PAGE 48 ===
ASCI GUIDELINES FOR USAGE OF
AWARDS/RANKINGS IN
ADVERTISEMENTS
Preamble
Awards and rankings are increasingly being used by advertisers to make
superiority claims for their products and services in advertising.
Consumers, owing to a lack of knowledge, may be led into believing that
an award or ranking which is given to a brand, product, institute or service
makes it superior and/or more authentic. Some of the awards and rankings
are likely to mislead the consumer by communicating that the product or
service is a recognised one, and raise its esteem in the mind of the consumer
as evaluated by experts or by a large body of experts, whereas this actually
may not be the case.
It is, therefore, accordingly necessary, that awards and rankings used in
advertising should be sourced from credible, recognised, independent
bodies, which employ ethical processes, rigour and appropriate research, so
that superiority claims made by advertisers are substantiated and do not
mislead consumers.
This is particularly important for claims made by educational institutions, which
affect children’s education, career opportunities and future job prospects. In
the healthcare services area, this can severely impact patients’ health and
wellbeing. The guidelines are applicable for all Awards and Rankings claims
made in advertisements across categories.
Key reference for applicable ASCI chapters
Chapter I - To ensure the Truthfulness and Honesty of representations
and claims made by advertisers and to safeguard the consumer against
misleading advertisements:
1.1 Advertisements must be truthful.
1.2 Where advertising claims are expressly stated to be based on, or
supported by, independent research or assessment, the source and
39

=== PAGE 49 ===
senilediuG
date of such independent research or assessment must be indicated
in the advertisement.
1.3 Advertisements shall not, without permission from the person, firm
or institution under reference, contain any reference to such person,
firm or institution, which confers an unjustified advantage to the
product advertised, or which tends to bring the person, firm or
institution into ridicule or disrepute.
1.4 Advertisements should disclose all material facts, which if
suppressed or distorted, would mislead the consumer by implication
or omission.
1.5 Advertisements should be framed in such manner as to gain consumer
trust, and not exploit his/her lack of understanding or knowledge.
Guidelines
These guidelines are developed to guide advertisers for appropriate
reference to award/s or ranking/s, claim/s in advertising, and will assist the
advertiser to understand why ASCI’s Consumer Complaints Council (CCC)
may accept or reject the mention of a certain award or ranking.
1. Awards/rankings should not be used as an alternative for consumer
or scientific research or testing, which is required to substantiate a
superiority claim about the effective use or performance of products
or services.
2. Advertisements that refer to awards/rankings should indicate clearly
the name of the organisation that has provided the award/ranking
and the month and year in which the award/ranking was pronounced.
3. The validity of the award/ranking so used to substantiate a claim
should be of a period preceding the advertisement by not more
than 12 months in case the award follows an annual awarding cycle.
For awards that are valid for a longer period, claim substantiation
documents should provide evidence of validity of the same. In case
the awarding organisation has conducted another ranking exercise,
the previous ranks would automatically cease to be valid. In some
cases if the year of the award period is self-explanatory, then such
reference to the award being current is not applicable.
40

=== PAGE 50 ===
4. The permission or consent of the person, institution or organisation
conferring the award/ranking should be obtained in writing before
being used in the advertisement.
5. Photographs of the award/certificate/awards function, or the list of
invitees to the award function, is by itself not sufficient evidence
to support the award. Additionally, details on the protocol/process
followed by the awarding/ranking organisation is required to
substantiate the claim.
6. Awards/rankings based on surveys done in one area (say, a city or
state) cannot be extrapolated to include a larger territory (say, India,
Asia, the world). Institutions cannot extrapolate data to substantiate
their claim. Additionally, awards/rankings given in one category
cannot be used to promote an institution in another category. For
example –
• If a university is ranked 25th on a national level, it cannot claim
that it is in the ‘Top 5’ in say, the North zone, unless the awarding
organisation publishes a zonal ranking as well.
• If the award is given to a particular department of a college
or to a college under a university, then the same cannot be
attributed to the college or university respectively.
7. To substantiate the award/ranking claim, the advertiser needs to give
an undertaking that there is no commercial relationship or conflict
of interest between the awarding organisation/the research agency/
jury members and the advertiser, and that they are two independent
entities. To be specific, there should be no direct or indirect payment
made by the advertiser to the institution or organisation granting
such award.
8. For a complaint lodged at ASCI against an advertisement claiming
award/ranking, the concerned advertiser would be required to
provide details on the protocol/process followed by the awarding/
ranking organisation for conferring the award/ranking on the
product/service. This would mean and include, but shall not be
limited to:
41

=== PAGE 51 ===
senilediuG
i. T he criteria for granting award/ranking, which should be
published and available in the public domain.
ii. The process followed, i.e., either via market research or by a
panel decision.
(a) If it is by means of a market research then its authenticity
needs to be supported for the following:
• The market research agency is a member of a
recognised market research association, such as
Market Research Society of India (MRSI) or ESOMAR.
• The sample size and methodology adopted.
(b) If there has been no market research, but the award
granted is based on a panel/jury decision, then in such
cases:
(1) T he credentials and qualifications of the panel/jury
judging the subject of the claim made for the brand.
(2) T he detailed process followed by the panel in
arriving at the decision.
(3) H ow many brands/products were assessed?
What was the criteria used, and what was the
methodology deployed by the panel in arriving at
its decision?
9. For a complaint lodged at ASCI against an advertisement claiming
award/ranking for a school/college/university/educational enterprise,
the concerned advertiser would be required to provide details on the
protocol/process followed by the awarding/ranking organisation for
conferring the award/ranking on the institution. This should include:
i. The evaluation parameters, which must be clearly specified and
the respective scores obtained by the educational institutions
on each parameter so specified.
ii. The parameters should cover various aspects, such as infrastructure,
students per class, faculty strength and profile, outcomes (academic
results/awards/higher studies), teaching methodology, sports
education, co-curricular activities, leadership and life-skills, etc.
42

=== PAGE 52 ===
iii. Only when a multi-faceted evaluation is done, can there be
a fair evaluation of the quality of education provided by an
educational institution.
iv. Where multiple parameters are used, the weightages between
the various parameters need to be indicated.
10. For a complaint lodged at ASCI against an advertisement claiming
award/ranking for a healthcare enterprise/hospital/treatment, the
concerned advertiser would be required to provide details on the
protocol/process followed for conferring the award/ranking on the
product/service. This should include:
i. Evaluation parameters, which are clearly specified and the
scores obtained by leading healthcare providers on each
parameter is published.
ii. The parameters should cover various aspects such as,
infrastructure, number and profile of doctors, their experience
and qualifications, patient care outcomes, innovation in
treatment/protocols, and impact on business operations or
patient care outcomes and medical KPIs.
iii. Where multiple parameters are used, the weightages between
various parameters needs to be indicated.
iv. Where doctor, patient or general public perception is
incorporated in the evaluation process, the study should be
collected by an independent reputable agency. The sample
size and spread, target group definition, sampling method and
the field control procedures should be clearly specified.
v. The questionnaire and data collection records should be
available to ASCI for review.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
April 21st, 2022
43

=== PAGE 53 ===
senilediuG
GUIDELINES FOR INFLUENCER
ADVERTISING IN DIGITAL MEDIA
DEFINITIONS
Influencer
An Influencer is someone who has access to an audience and the power
to affect their audiences’ purchasing decisions or opinions about a
product, service, brand or experience, because of the influencer’s authority,
knowledge, position, or relationship with their audience.
Virtual Influencer
Virtual influencers, are fictional computer generated ‘people’ or avatars
who have the realistic characteristics, features and personalities of humans,
and behave in a similar manner as influencers.
Material connection
A material connection is any connection between an advertiser and influencer
that may affect the weight or credibility of the representation made by the
influencer. Material connection could include, but is not limited to benefits
and incentives, such as monetary or other compensation, free products with
or without any conditions attached including those received unsolicited,
discounts, gifts, contest and sweepstakes entries, trips or hotel stays, media
barters, coverage, awards, or any family or employment relationship, etc.
Digital media
Digital Media is defined as a means of communication that can be transmitted
over the internet or digital networks, and includes communication received,
stored, transmitted, edited or processed by a digital media platform. Digital
media includes but is not limited to:
1) Internet (advergames, sponsored posts, branded content,
promotional blogs, paid-for links, gamification, in-game advertising,
teasers, viral advertising, augmented reality, native advertising,
connected devices, influencers, etc.)
2) On-demand across platforms, including near video on demand,
subscription video on demand, near movie on demand, free video
on demand, transactional video on demand, advertising video on
demand, video on demand, pay per view, etc.
44

=== PAGE 54 ===
3) Mobile broadcast, mobile, communications content, websites, blogs,
apps, etc./digital TV (including digital video broadcasting, handheld
and terrestrial), etc.
4) NSTV (non-standard television)
5) DDHE (digital delivery home entertainment)
6) DTT (digital terrestrial television)
Preamble:
As digital media becomes increasingly pervasive and more consumers
start to consume advertising on various digital platforms, it has become
important to understand the peculiarities of these advertisements and the
way consumers view them. With lines between content and advertisements
becoming blurry, it is critical that consumers must be able to distinguish
when something is being promoted with an intention to influence their
opinion or behaviour for an immediate or eventual commercial gain.
Consumers may view such messages without realising the commercial
intent of these, and that becomes inherently misleading, and in violation
of clause 1.4 (misleading by omission) and 1.5 (abuse trust of consumers or
exploit their lack of experience or knowledge).
Guidelines:
1. Disclosure
All advertisements published by social media influencers or
their representatives, on such influencers’ accounts must carry a
disclosure label that clearly identifies it as an advertisement.
1.1 The following criteria must be used to determine if disclosure is
required:
a. Disclosure is required if there is any material connection
between the advertiser and the influencer.
b. Material connection is not limited to monetary compensation.
Disclosure is required if there is anything of value given to
mention or talk about the advertiser’s product or service. For
example: If the advertiser or its agents gives free or discounted
products or service, or other perks, and then the influencer
mentions one of its products or services, a disclosure is needed
even if they were not specifically asked to talk about that
product or service.
45

=== PAGE 55 ===
senilediuG
c. Disclosures are required even if the evaluations are unbiased or
fully originated by the influencer, so long as there is a material
connection between the advertiser and influencer.
d. If there is no material connection and the influencer is telling
people about a product or service they bought and happen
to like, that is not considered to be an advertisement and no
disclosure is required on such posts.
1.2 Disclosure must be upfront and prominent so that it is not missed by
an average consumer.
a. It should be placed in a manner that is hard to miss.
b. Disclosures are likely to be missed if they appear only on an
ABOUT ME or profile page, or bios, at the end of posts or
videos, or anywhere that requires a person to click MORE.
c. Disclosure should not be buried in a group of hashtags or links.
d. If the advertisement is only a picture or video post without
accompanying text (such as Instagram stories or Snapchat),
the disclosure label needs to be superimposed over the picture/
video, and it should be ensured that the average consumer is
able to see it clearly.
I. For videos that last 15 seconds or lesser, the disclosure label
must stay for a minimum of 3 seconds.
II. For videos longer than 15 seconds, but less than 2 minutes, the
disclosure label should stay for 1/3rd the length of the video.
III. For videos which are 2 minutes or longer, the disclosure label
must stay for the entire duration of the section in which the
promoted brand or its features, benefits etc., are mentioned.
e. In live streams, the disclosure label should be announced at the
beginning and the end of the broadcast. If the post continues
to be visible after the live stream is over, appropriate disclosure
must be added to the text/caption.
f. In the case of audio media, the disclosure must be clearly
announced at the beginning and at the end of the audio, and
before and after every break that is taken in between.
46

=== PAGE 56 ===
1.3 The disclosure must be made in a manner that is well understood by
an average consumer.
a. Following is the list of disclosure labels permitted. Any one or
more can be used:
• Advertisement
• Ad
• Sponsored
• Collaboration
• Partnership
• Employee
• Free Gift
• Affiliate
• Any platform disclosure tool meant for the purpose of
disclosure of material connection with brands.
b. The disclosure should be in English OR in the language as
the advertisement itself, in a way that is easy for an average
consumer to understand.
1.4 A virtual influencer must additionally disclose to consumers that
they are not interacting with a real human being. This disclosure
must be upfront and prominent.
1.5 Responsibility of disclosure of material connection and also of the
content of advertisement is upon the advertiser for whose product
or service the advertisement is, and also upon the influencer. For
clarity, where advertiser has a material connection with the influencer,
advertiser’s responsibility will be to ensure that the posted influencer
advertisement is in line with the ASCI code and its guidelines. While
the influencer shall be responsible for making disclosures required
under the guidelines, the advertiser, shall, where needed, call upon
the influencer to delete or edit an advertisement or the disclosure
label to adhere to the ASCI Code and Guidelines.
2. Due Diligence
The influencers are advised to review and satisfy themselves that
the advertiser is in a position to substantiate the claims made in the
advertisement.
47

=== PAGE 57 ===
senilediuG
Addendum I (Date 15.07.2021)
If an influencer/advertiser disputes that the piece of communication in
question is not an advertisement as there is no material connection, the
following evidence will be required to be submitted to ASCI:
1. A declaration from the advertiser stating that there is no material
connection between them and the influencer as on the date of the
post. This declaration needs to be signed by a senior member of
the advertiser’s organisation such as the Marketing Head, Legal/
Compliance Head, and Digital Marketing Head or similar.
2. In the event that the advertiser of the brand featured is difficult to
trace in spite of reasonable efforts, or if the piece of communication
features brands of multiple advertisers, then proof of purchase of
featured products and brands, provided by the influencer, would be
considered adequate evidence to refute material connection.
Addendum II (dated 06.03.2025)
For Health and Financial Influencers
As losses to consumers could be substantial and serious due to improper or
wrong advice in the categories connected with a) Banking, Financial Services
and Insurance (BFSI) and b) Health and nutrition products & services it is
necessary that Influencers in these two categories are qualified to provide
advice and that these qualifications are stated upfront in their posts.
I. Influencers providing advice and/or promoting and/or commenting on
merits or demerits on technical aspects related to commercial goods
or services must have the necessary qualifications and certifications in
order to provide such information and advice to consumers.
This would include aspects such as -
a. Claims on investment or any other financial advice based on growth,
safety, security, returns etc. in the field of BFSI.
b. Any prevention, treatment, cure, remedy for medical conditions etc.
related claims for Health and Nutrition products or services.
1. In the area of BFSI related to stock or investments, they should be
registered with SEBI and their SEBI registration number should be
stated with their name & qualifications. For other financial advice,
48

=== PAGE 58 ===
the influencer must have suitable qualifications such as an IRDAI
insurance license, CA, CS etc. In addition, they must abide by all
disclosure requirements as mandated by financial sector regulators
from time to time.
2. For posts related to health and nutrition, the influencer must have
relevant qualifications such as a medical degree, or be a certified
nurse, nutritionist, dietician, physiotherapist, psychologist etc.
depending on the specific advice being given.
II. The influencer must disclose such qualifications and registration/
certification details prominently, as follows:
1. Superimposed on the visuals prominently and upfront, or mentioned
as the opening remark in videos.
2. For blogs or any text-based posts, they should be stated up front
before the consumer has to read the post
3. In the case of podcasts or a pure audio medium, they should be
called out at the beginning of the advertising content.
III. Influencers who do not have the required qualifications can share
generic information about products or services that are not in the nature
of technical advice.
For example,
a. An insurance company using an influencer to talk about the need for
annual health check-ups
b. Health food company tying up with a chef or food blogger to
promote a meal service.
Influencers also must be able to provide proof of such qualifications and
certifications should they be asked to by ASCI.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
March 06th, 2025
49

=== PAGE 59 ===
senilediuG
GUIDELINES FOR ADVERTISING OF
VIRTUAL DIGITAL ASSETS AND LINKED
SERVICES
Preamble:
A Virtual Digital Asset (VDA) has been de ned as any information or code or
number or token (not being Indian currency or foreign currency), generated
through cryptographic means or otherwise, by whatever name called,
providing a digital representation of value exchanged with or without
consideration, with the promise or representation of having inherent value,
or functions as a store of value or a unit of account including its use in any
financial transaction or investment, but not limited to investment scheme,
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically.
These products are more commonly referred to as “crypto products” or
Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)
Such products are a relatively new and an evolving form of investments.
There is a need to protect consumer/investor interests, as users may not be
aware of risks arising from this form of trading and investment. The market for
VDAs is not regulated and can be very volatile, since it is usually not backed
by any tangible assets. In order to ensure that consumers who deal in VDA
products are fully aware of the risks, and are not misled, ads must comply
with the ASCI “Guidelines for Virtual Digital Assets and Linked Services”, so
as not to Violate Chapter 1 of the ASCI code, particularly clauses 1.1, 1.4, 1.5.
that require advertisements to be truthful, and not mislead consumers by
implication, ambiguity, exaggeration or omission, and not framed in a way
that abuse their trust or exploit their lack of knowledge.
Guidelines:
(1.1) All ads for VDA products and VDA exchanges, or featuring
VDAs,must carry the following disclaimer.
“Crypto products and NFTs are unregulated and can be highly risky. There
may be no regulatory recourse for any loss from such transactions.”
50

=== PAGE 60 ===
Such a disclaimer must be made in the following manner so that it is
PROMINENT and UNMISSABLE by an average consumer:
(a) In print or static, equal to at least 1/5th of the advertising space
at the bottom of the advertisement in an easy-to-read font, against
a plain background, and to the maximum font size afforded by
the space.
(b) In video, the disclaimer should be placed at the end of the
advertisement against a plain background. A voiceover must
accompany the disclaimer in text. The voiceover should be at a
normal speaking pace and must not be hurried. In the case of long
format video of over ten minutes, the said disclaimer should be
repeated at the beginning and at the end of the video. The disclaimer
must remain on screen for a minimum of five seconds.
(c) In audio, the disclaimer must be spoken at the end of the
advertisement. The voiceover should be at a normal speaking pace
and must not be hurried. In the case of long format audio of over 90
seconds, the said disclaimer should be repeated at the beginning
and at the end of the audio.
(d) In social media posts, such a disclaimer must be carried in all pictures
or videos.
The disclaimer should be legible and in accordance with specifications
laid down by ASCI’s disclaimer guidelines clause 4.
(e) In disappearing stories or posts unaccompanied by text, the said
disclaimer will need to be voiced at the end of the story in the
manner laid out in points (a) or (b) above. If the video is 15 seconds
or lesser, then the disclaimer may be carried in a prominent and
visible manner as an overlay.
(f) In formats where there is a limit on characters, the following
shortened disclaimer must be used “Crypto products and NFT’s are
unregulated and risky” followed by a link to the full disclaimer.
51

=== PAGE 61 ===
senilediuG
(g) The disclaimer must be made in the dominant language of the
advertisement
(h) In addition to the above, all disclaimers must meet the minimum
requirements laid down in the ASCI guidelines for disclaimers.
(2) The words “currency”, “securities”, “custodian” and “depositories”
may not be used in advertisements of VDA products or services as
consumers associate these terms with regulated products.
(3) The information contained in advertisements shall not contradict
the information or warnings that the regulated entities provide to
customers in the marketing of VDA products from time to time.
(4) Advertisements that provide information on the cost or profitability
of VDA products shall contain clear, accurate, sufficient and updated
information. For example, “zero cost” will need to include all costs
that the consumer might reasonably associate with the o er or
transaction.
(5) Information on past performance shall not be provided in any partial
or biased manner. Returns for periods of less than 12 months shall
not be included.
(6) Every advertisement for VDA products must clearly give out the
name of the advertiser and provide an easy way to contact them
(phone number or email). This information should be presented in a
manner that is easily understood by the average consumer.
(7) No advertisement for VDA products or exchanges may show a
minor, or someone who appears to be a minor, directly dealing with
the product, or talking about the product.
(8) No advertisement may show that VDA products or VDA trading
could be a solution to money problems, personality problems or
other such drawbacks.
52

=== PAGE 62 ===
(9) No advertisement shall contain statements that promise or guarantee
future increase in profits.
(10) No advertisement may show that understanding VDA products is
so easy that consumers do not have to think twice about investing.
Nothing in the ad should downplay the risks associated with the
category.
(11) VDA products may not be compared to any other asset class which
is regulated.
(12) Since this is a risky category, celebrities or prominent personalities
who appear in VDA advertisements must take special care to ensure
that they have done their due diligence about the statements and
claims made in the advertisement, so as not to mislead consumers.
---------------------------------
The guidelines will be applicable to all advertisements released or published
on or after 1st April 2022. Advertisers and media owners must also ensure
that all earlier advertisements must not appear in the public domain unless
they comply with the guidelines, post 15th April 2022.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
September 29th, 2023
53

=== PAGE 63 ===
senilediuG
GUIDELINES ON HARMFUL GENDER
STEREOTYPES
Preamble:
The guidelines on harmful stereotyping follow the release of ASCI’s study
GenderNext, conducted along with Futurebrands in October 2021. The
study examined the depiction of women in advertising and identified
several stereotypes and tropes. While the report encourages advertisers
and creators to demonstrate more progressive roles based on the insights
revealed, it also identified some stereotypical depictions that could
negatively reinforce how people think they should look and behave, and
how others think they should look and behave, based on their gender. This
can have negative consequences for individuals and for society as a whole,
and over a period of time. As society progresses and evolves, norms on
what is acceptable to consumers and other stakeholders also evolve. While
harmful stereotypes are not only present in advertising, and advertising is
not the only factor that reinforces these stereotypes, it is important for
advertising to play its rightful role and not contribute to the perpetuation
of such stereotypes.
As the gender landscape is a complex issue, the following guidelines
provide a specific interpretation of ASCI Chapter III (against harmful
situations) as it relates to harmful gender stereotyping. While the guidelines
lay down the boundaries of what is unacceptable, advertisers and creators
are encouraged to be inspired by the spirit of the GenderNext report and
deploy the SEA framework and the 3S checklist to create more progressive
gender depictions when it comes to the depiction of women.
(https://ascionline.in/gendernextreport/index.html)
Guidelines
Note:
1. ASCI will consider an ad’s likely impact when taken as a whole, and in
context
54

=== PAGE 64 ===
2. ASCI will consider stereotypes from the perspective of the group of
individuals being stereotyped.
3. The use of humour or banter is not likely to overcome the underlying
issue of such harmful stereotypes.
4. The guidelines do not intend to prevent ads from featuring:
a. glamorous, attractive, successful, aspirational or healthy people or
lifestyles;
b. one gender only, including in advertisements for products
developed for and aimed at a particular gender;
c. gender stereotypes as a means to challenge their harmful effects.
Advertisements must not include gender stereotypes that are likely to
cause harm or serious or widespread offence.
1. While advertisements may feature people undertaking gender-
stereotypical roles e.g., a woman cleaning the house or a man going to
an office, or displaying gender-stereotypical characteristics e.g., a man
being assertive or a woman being sensitive to others’ needs, they must
not suggest that stereotypical roles or characteristics are:
• always uniquely associated with a particular gender
• the only options available to a particular gender
• never carried out, or displayed by, another gender(s).
1.1 Advertisements that are aimed at or depict children may target and
feature a specific gender, but should not convey that a particular
children’s product, pursuit, behaviour, or activity, including choice
of play or career, is inappropriate for one or another gender(s).
For example, ads suggesting that a boy’s stereotypical personality
should be “daring” or that a girl’s stereotypical personality should be
“caring”, or someone chiding a boy playing with dolls or girls from
jumping around, because it is not the typical activity associated
with the gender, are likely to be problematic.
55

=== PAGE 65 ===
senilediuG
2. While advertisements may feature glamorous and attractive people, they
must not suggest that an individual’s happiness or emotional wellbeing
depends on conforming to these idealised gender-stereotypical body
shapes or physical features.
3. Advertisements should not mock people for not conforming to gender
stereotypes, their sexual orientation or gender identity, including in a
context that is intended to be humorous, hyperbolic or exaggerated. For
example, an ad may not belittle a man for carrying out stereotypically
female roles or tasks or make fun of a same-sex relationship.
4. Advertisements should not reinforce unrealistic and undesirable gender
ideals or expectations. For example, an advertisement must not depict
a man with his feet up and family members creating a mess around a
home, while a woman is solely responsible for cleaning up the mess, or
a woman overly grateful for the man helping her in everyday chores.
Similarly, a woman returning from work may not be shown as solely
responsible for doing household duties, while others around her are at
leisure.
5. An advertisement may not suggest that a person fails to achieve
a task specifically because of their gender e.g., a man’s inability to
change nappies; or a woman’s inability to park a car. In categories that
usually target a particular gender, care must be taken to not depict
condescension towards any other gender, or show them as incapable of
understanding the product or unable to make decisions. This does not
prevent the advertisement from showing these stereotypes as a means
to challenge them.
6. Where an advertisement features a person with a physique or physical
characteristics that do not match an ideal stereotype associated with
their gender, the advertisement should not imply that their physique
or physical characteristics are a significant reason for them not being
successful, for example, in their romantic, social or professional lives.
For example, an ad may not suggest that a man who is short, a woman
who is dark, or any individual who is overweight has difficulty finding a
job or a partner due to this aspect of their physique.
56

=== PAGE 66 ===
7. Advertisements should not indulge in the sexual objectification of
characters of any gender or depict people in a sexualised and objectified
way for the purposes of titillating viewers. This would include the use
of language or visual treatments in contexts wholly irrelevant to the
product. For example, an online takeaway service featuring an image
of a woman wearing lingerie lying back in a provocative pose behind
various fast-food items would be considered problematic. Even though
the image may not be sexually explicit, by using a suggestive image
of a woman that bears no relevance to the advertised product, the ad
would be considered objectifying women by presenting them as sexual
objects, and therefore is a gender stereotype that is likely to cause
harm.
8. No gender should be encouraged to exert domination or authority
over the other(s) by means of overt or implied threats, actual force,
or through the use of demeaning language or tone. Advertisements
cannot provoke or trivialise violence (physical or emotional), unlawful
or anti-social behaviour based on gender. Additionally, advertisements
should not encourage or normalise voyeurism, eve-teasing, stalking,
emotional or physical harassment or any similar offences. This does not
prevent the advertisement from showing these depictions as a means
to challenge them.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
June 8th, 2022
57

=== PAGE 67 ===
senilediuG
GUIDELINES FOR ONLINE DECEPTIVE
DESIGN PATTERNS IN ADVERTISING
Preamble
Online Deceptive Design Patterns commonly known as “Dark Patterns” is
an umbrella term referring to a wide variety of practices commonly found
in online user interfaces that lead consumers to make choices that often are
not in their best interests. Developing a universally accepted definition of
Dark Patterns is a challenge, owing in part to the wide variety of practices
referred to as such and different views on whether certain practices should
be considered Dark Patterns.
The OECD Committee on Consumer Policy proposes the following working
definition intended to facilitate near-term discussion about such practices
among regulators and policymakers across jurisdictions: “Dark commercial
patterns are business practices employing elements of digital choice
architecture, in particular in online user interfaces, that subvert or impair
consumer autonomy, decision-making or choice. They often deceive, coerce
or manipulate consumers and are likely to cause direct or indirect consumer
detriment in various ways, though it may be difficult or impossible to
measure such detriment in many instances.”
Dark Patterns share one or more end-goals – for example getting consumers
to purchase, purchase more of, or continue to purchase, a good or service
that they would otherwise not purchase or purchase in lesser quantity; to
spend more money on a purchase or time on a service than desired; or
to give up more personal data than desired – with the ultimate purpose
of increasing business revenue. There are many instances of Dark Pattern
executions which are unrelated to advertisements such as users being
guilted into opting for something which they would otherwise not have,
or, when consumers purchase something, additional products are added
into the basket of the consumer, without their knowledge - like donations
to relief funds, etc. However as ASCI’s remit is limited to self-regulation of
Advertising content these guidelines cover only advertising in digital media
including e-commerce, airline, food delivery etc. apps and websites.
58

=== PAGE 68 ===
Chapter 1 of the ACSI code requires ads to be honest, and not abuse the
trust or lack of expertise of the consumer. The code requires ads to not
mislead by omission, exaggeration, implication or ambiguity. To ensure that
advertisements do not breach Chapter 1, the following guidelines are to be
applied to digital advertising.
Guidelines
1. Drip Pricing:
Quoted prices in advertisements and e-commerce sites must include
non-optional taxes, duties, fees and charges that apply to all or most
buyers so as to prevent drip pricing. Drip pricing refers to a practice
whereby elements of the prices are not revealed upfront, and the total
price is only revealed at the very end of the buying process or post-
confirmation of purchase. This creates ambiguity around the final price
as well as prevents easy price comparisons. Hence incomplete price
representations upfront would be considered misleading.
Example: A consumer orders a snack from an online food delivery
platform where a price of Rs. 100 is shown, but the final amount payable
comes to Rs. 175 as it additionally includes taxes, delivery fees, platform
convenience fees and other such charges. If such charges are common
for all or most consumers, they must be included in the displayed prices
on the listing ad itself.
2. Bait and Switch:
When an ad or an element in the ad directly or indirectly implies
one outcome based on the consumer’s action, but instead serves
an alternative outcome, the same would be considered misleading.
Examples:
a. A consumer may select a product offered at a certain price but is
thereafter only able to access the same product at a higher price.
b. Another example is offering an attractive product and later
revealing that it is out of stock, offering an alternative product.
59

=== PAGE 69 ===
senilediuG
c. Changing the meaning of key symbols to mean the opposite. For
example, an X on the top right corner of the ad, instead of closing
an app, may open up the app, or do the very action that the user
was trying to avoid. The X on the top right is commonly understood
by consumers to mean “close”. But in this specific interaction, the X
means “accept/ proceed”. This would be deemed to mislead the
consumer.
3. False Urgency:
Stating or implying that quantities of a particular product or service
are (e.g. airline seats available at a certain price) more limited than they
actually are would amount to misleading consumers. In the case of any
complaint, the advertisers would be required to demonstrate that the
stock position at the time of the appearance of the limited quantity
message was of a level where the urgency communicated could not be
considered misleading.
4. Disguised Ads:
An advertisement that is of a similar format as editorial or organic
content must clearly disclose that it is an ad. Examples could be
influencer posts, paid reviews, and ads placed in a manner to appear
like editorial content.
These guidelines will be applicable from 1st September 2023.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
May 11th, 2023
60

=== PAGE 70 ===
GUIDELINES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS FOR
CHARITABLE CAUSES
Preamble:
In recent years, charities have been active advertisers, particularly on digital
media, and especially for the purpose of seeking funds and crowdfunding
on behalf of their beneficiaries. It may be noted that many such beneficiaries
may not have an active social network to reach and tap donors. Charities,
including crowdfunding platforms, provide this reach through sponsored
ads and organic posts, which tap potential donors.
However, there have been some concerns about ads that create donor
distress through the use of images that may be too graphic. While the
intent of such posts is undoubtedly to nudge donors to contribute, such
posts may cause undue distress to ordinary consumers who may be surfing
through their news feeds.
Charities can have a challenging job explaining the nature of the important,
and often sensitive, work they do in a way that educates, but doesn’t distress,
their audience. While many people may feel a powerful and sometimes
negative reaction to these types of ads, conversely, many could feel that
the worthwhile nature of the charities means that greater scope should be
afforded to them to use hard-hitting themes and images.
It’s perfectly understandable that charitable organisations want to do
everything possible to raise awareness and funds for their causes. However,
they must take care not to overstep the mark by misleading consumers or
causing unjustified distress. ASCI’s Chapter 1 requires ads to be honest and
truthful, and Chapter 2 requires them not to cause grave or widespread
harm or offence. In order for ads to be compliant with the ASCI code,
advertisements related to charitable causes must adhere to the following
guidelines.
1. An advertisement for a charitable organization or crowdsourcing
platform for charity shall not overtly or pointedly suggest that anyone
who doesn’t support the charity fails in their responsibility or should
feel ashamed.
61

=== PAGE 71 ===
senilediuG
2. Advertisements must not disrespect the dignity of those on whose
behalf an appeal is being made, by any means, including showing
graphic images of victims in distress, particularly children and minors.
An advertiser must be able to produce evidence of express consent for
the use of images of beneficiaries if asked to do so.
3. In digital advertising, any image shown in the ad that could cause
unjustified distress to an ordinary consumer, must be blurred and made
visible only to those interested in clicking and knowing more.
4. When an appeal is made for a specific case or a specific beneficiary,
the ad must disclose if the funds could potentially be used for other
purposes or other beneficiaries. Ads must not mislead consumers about
where or to whom their donations are going.
5. If a crowdsourcing platform collects a percentage or fee for managing
or raising donor funds, it must be made clear what such amounts are in
the advertisement itself.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
June 13th 2023
62

=== PAGE 72 ===
GUIDELINES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
MAKING ENVIRONMENTAL/GREEN
CLAIMS
Preamble:
Consumers are increasingly demanding products and services which
minimise harm to, or have a positive effect on, the environment. As a result,
there has been a proliferation of products, services and businesses which
claim to meet that demand. If claims of being green and sustainable are
not reliable and verifiable, consumers cannot fully leverage their purchasing
decisions to reward better environmental performance. In addition, they
may be misled in choosing products or services based on unclear or false
claims.
In view of the above, the goal of this guideline is to – i) demonstrate how
advertisers can make true, clear, evidence-based claims that consumers can
understand and trust; ii) assist consumers make more informed choices if
they want to make purchasing decisions based on environmental claims
and iii) explain the approach ASCI would take in investigating whether
environmental claims are likely to contravene the ASCI Code
‘Environmental Claims/Green Claims’
Environmental claims include claims that suggest or create an impression
that a product (and/or its packaging) or a service as a whole:
1) has a neutral or positive impact on the environment;
2) is comparably less damaging to the environment than a previous version
of the same product or service; or
3) is less damaging to the environment than competing goods or services;
or
4) has specific environmental benefits.
63

=== PAGE 73 ===
senilediuG
Environmental/Green claims can be explicit or implicit. They can appear
in advertisements, marketing material, branding (including business and
trading names), on packaging or in other information provided to consumers.
All aspects of a claim would be relevant, such as:
• the meaning of any terms used;
• the qualifications and explanations of what is said;
• the evidence that supports those claims;
• the information that is not included or hidden;
• the colours, pictures and logos used; and
• the overall presentation.
Greenwashing
Greenwashing refers to unsubstantiated, false, deceptive, misleading
environmental claims about products, services, processes, brands or
operations as a whole, or claims that omit or hide information, to give the
impression that they are less harmful or more beneficial to the environment
than they actually are. Greenwashing violates Chapter I of the ASCI code
on misleading advertisements. In order not to breach Chapter I of the ASCI
code, advertisements must adhere to the following guidelines.
GUIDELINES:
1. Absolute claims such as but not limited to “environment friendly”,
“eco-friendly”, “sustainable”, “planet friendly” that imply that the
entire product advertised has no impact or only a positive impact or
reduces adverse impact must be capable of being substantiated by
robust data and/ or well-recognised and credible accreditations. Such
absolute claims cannot be diluted by means of a disclaimer or any other
clarificatory mechanism such as a QR code or website link etc.
2. Comparative claims such as “greener” or “friendlier” would need evidence
that the advertised product or service provides an environmental benefit
over that of the advertiser’s previous product or service or competitor
products or services and the basis of such comparison is made clear.
64

=== PAGE 74 ===
3. A general environmental claim must be based on the full life cycle of the
advertised product or service, unless the advertisement states otherwise,
and must make clear the limits of the life cycle. If a general environmental
claim cannot be justified, a more limited claim about specific aspects of
a product or service might be justifiable. Claims that are based on only
part of an advertised product or service’s life cycle must not mislead
consumers about the product or service’s total environmental impact.
4. Unless it is clear from the context, an environmental claim should specify
whether it refers to the product, the product’s packaging, a service, or
just to a portion of the product, package, or service.
5. Advertisements must not mislead consumers about the environmental
benefit that a product or service offers by highlighting the absence of
an environmentally damaging ingredient if that ingredient is not usually
found in competing products or services. Similarly, advertisements must
not claim an environmental benefit that results from a legal obligation if
competing products are subject to the same requirements.
Where such ‘free-of’ claim is necessary to equip the consumers with
relevant information, an appropriate disclaimer should be added to
indicate the purpose e.g. “XX-Free: (Names of regulation) prohibit
the use of (name of prohibited substance/ingredient) in (category of
products)”. It would be deceptive to claim that a product is “free-of”
a substance if it is free of one substance but includes another that is
known to pose a similar or higher environmental risk.
6. Where the use of Certifications or Seals of Approval create the impression
of an environmental claim to consumers, then the advertiser should make
clear what attributes of the product or service have been evaluated by
the certifier. The advertiser should ensure that the certifying agency
is nationally/internationally accredited by a certifying authority for eg.
agency accredited by the UN council/committee, BIS etc.
7. An advertiser shall not use visual elements in an advertisement which
results in the advertisement conveying a false impression that the
product is less harmful or more beneficial to the environment, when seen
as a whole, unless required under law. For example, logos representing
a recycling process on packaging and/or in advertising material can
significantly influence a consumer’s impression of the environmental
impact of a product or service.
65

=== PAGE 75 ===
senilediuG
Visual elements for the above purpose shall not include the colour
scheme related to nature or environment or images of natural
ingredients or natural elements used on the products / packaging /
services as a part of its creative brand identity or trademark/tradename
unless such elements used are connected directly to any Environmental
Claim made on such products / packaging / services to influence a
consumer’s impression of the environmental impact of a product,
packaging or service. For example, a green coloured packaging with
natural ingredients contained in the product will not be considered as
contributing to a green claim unless it refers to an environmental claim
8. Advertisers should refrain from making aspirational claims on the
products/ packaging/services about future environmental objectives
unless they have developed clear and actionable plans detailing how
those objectives will be achieved.
9. For carbon offset claims where the offset does not occur within the
next two years, advertisers should clearly and prominently disclose the
same. Advertisements should not claim directly or by implication that a
carbon offset represents an emission reduction if the reduction, or the
activity that caused the reduction, was required by law.
10. For claims pertaining to the product being compostable, biodegradable,
recyclable, non-toxic, free-of etc. advertisers should qualify the aspects
to which such claims are being attributed, and the extent of the same.
All such claims should have competent and reliable scientific evidence
to show that:
a) The product or the qualified component where applicable will break
down within a reasonably short period of time after customary
disposal.
b) The product is free of elements that can lead to environmental
hazards.
Note: These guidelines are effective February 15th 2024.
Chairman
Board of Governors, ASCI
January 15, 2024
66

=== PAGE 76 ===
NOTES

=== PAGE 77 ===
AWARDS
European Advertising Standards Alliance -
Global Best Practice Awards
ASCI Mobile App
"ASCIOnline" for prompt
Gold Gold Reduced the time taken
and efficient complaint
2016 2013 to process complaints
handling at no cost to the
consumer.
Three Pronged Awareness
Silver National Advertising Bronze
Campaign (Regulators, Ad
2012 Monitoring Service (NAMS) 2011
Agencies, Consumers)
Collaboration with the
Bronze Guidelines for Advertising Silver
Indian Government to
2010 of Educational Institutions 2008
spread Self-Regulation
Maddies Mobile Awards 2015
ASCIOnline Mobile App wins a bronze at E4M's. The Maddies Mobile
Awards 2015 for the Social/ Not for Profit Campaign Category.
International Recognitions
ASCIOnline Mobile App wins a bronze at E4M's. The Maddies Mobile
Awards 2015 for the Social/ Not for Profit Campaign Category.
Special Recognition awarded by ICAS in 2019
For ASCI's “Guidelines for Celebrities in Advertising” at the first-ever
‘Global Awards for Effective Advertising Self-Regulation’
Special Category awarded by ICAS in 2021
In 2021 , ASCI also won two ICAS awards, one for the ASCI scroll telecast across
television in the ‘Best Awareness Raising Initiative’ and for its extensive digital
suo-motu monitoring through NAMS initiative, in the ‘Special Category’. It also got
a special mention in the ‘Best Sectoral Initiative’ category for its efforts and
regulatory recognition of its Gaming Guidelines.

=== PAGE 78 ===
402/A, Aurus Chambers, S.S. Amrutwar Marg, Worli, Mumbai 400 013
Tel: 022 24955076 / 77 | E-mail: contact@ascionline.in | Website: www.ascionline.in
CIN: U91200MH1985GAP037820
Edition: AUGUST 2025